The experimental results with transfer learning show that VGG-16 and Xception were the best performers for accurately detecting neurological disorders at two distinct levels. At the lower order, Xception surpassed the generalization capability of VGG-16, however, VGG-16 maintained its dominance in high-order MRI classification due to its ability to learn intricate features from these complex images. Moreover, these models can be customized to achieve improved generalization capabilities for this specific application. The VGG-16 model showed good performance in the identification and categorization of 28 distinct disorder class labels in MRI images, with an enhanced accuracy of 90%. This method offers a quick and reliable way to identify and diagnose neurological diseases, with potential applications in a variety of other medical settings, including severity-based diagnosis of neurological disorders. Additionally, the model's resilience and dependability were ensured by the application of data augmentation techniques ensuring generalization of various cases. This study has a significant impact on medical diagnostics as it can help physicians identify neurological diseases early on, enabling timely intervention and other necessary actions. The study also indicates that neurological problems are strongly associated with family type and income, possibly more so than other contributing factors. In addition, the level of internet usage exhibits a high correlation with academic performance, although significant exceptions exist. Furthermore, adopting this study design to a wider range of the population could provide a clearer understanding of the factors influencing human brain neuroplasticity. This knowledge could inform preventative measures, such as promoting a balanced approach to technology usage that fosters a healthy relationship between the real and virtual world, ultimately contributing to the digital well-being of individuals.
